= Treesitter =
You can install treesitter-parsers just with the following command.
{{{lua
:TSInstall <tab>
}}}
By pressing <TAB> the autocompletion shows you a plethora of installable languages.

With the `:InspectTree` you can display the the AST (Abstract-Syntax-Tree) in a speperate window.


= Renaming a variable  =
There are several cases where you would want to rename a variable.
The place before the `s` is reserved for the scope, which is:
- `'<,'>` currently selected
- `%` entire file

Go to the string of your choice and press `*`. All matched occurences will be highlighted. Then do
{{{
:%s/
}}}
With `C-r` you can paste the highlighted string. At first it looks like this
{{{
:%s/"
}}}
After a `/`:
{{{
:%s/\<string\>
}}}
Continue with another `/` and your wanted string.
{{{
:%s/\<string\>/mynewstring/
}}}
You can now specifiy, if you want to change globally with `g` (don't know what this means) and if you want confirmation with `c`.
{{{
:%s/\<string\>/mynewstring/gc
}}}


== in you entire project ==
The native vim-way goes like that:
{{{vimscript
:grep <string> `<location>`
:grep h.maier `find . -type f`
}}}
The seconds command would search all subdirectorys for `h.maier`. Depending on the size of your project, this could take a while.
You can always abort the `grep` with `C-c`. After finishing the search, you can load the found occurences into a _quickfix list_ by doing a `:copen`.

If you use *Telescope for searching* (which is way more ergonimic than the grep-method) you can use `C-q` to load the found-occurences into a quickfix list.

From there on, `:cdo` is your friend. Replacing a variable-name goes like this:
{{{vimscript
:cdo %s/h.maier/nobody/gc
}}}
`:cdo` lets you iterate through the quickfix list and execute the given command for every entry.

== Adding characters to the END of every line of selected text ==

- select the block of text with `SHIFT + V`
- enter command mode with `:` (colon)
- at first it will look like this

{{{vimscript
:'<,'>
}}}

- go into normal mode with `norm` and write your commands

{{{vimscript
:'<,'>norm A <the-string-of-my-choice>
}}}

= Lua =
Ein angenehmes Tool um den ganzen Lua-Code nach nem Herumfuschen 체bersichtlicher zu machen ist `stylua`.
Mehr zu Lua gibt es hier: [[lua]]


= Troubleshooting =
== Fehler nach Updates von Plugins ==
In einer Vielzahl von F채llen treten Probleme nach Updates von Plugins auf.
L채sst sich der Fehler nicht zur eigenen Konfiguration, sondern in den Quellcode des Plugin zur체ckverfolgen,
ist es am einfachsten das Plugin einfach neu zu installieren. 
